# SIEM - Splunk 
> Splunk is a platform that empowers organizations to prevent major issues, detect threats, restore services, and drive transformation by providing the visibility and insights they require.

## Overview 
SIEM, such as an Splunk, is an important part of a security analyst's toolbox because it provides a platform for storing, analyzing, and reporting on data from different sources. The Splunk's querying language, called Search Processing Language (SPL), includes the use of pipes and wildcards. In addition, the effective search helps us efficiently identify patterns, trends, and anomalies within data. 

## Scenario 
You are a security analyst working at the e-commerce store Buttercup Games. You've been tasked with identifying whether there are any possible security issues with the mail server. To do so, you must explore any failed SSH logins for the root account.  

The following are the details of the data in a zipped file which you will upload it into Splunk: 
* `mailsv` - Buttercup Games' mail server. Examine events generated from this host.
* `www1` - This is one of Buttercup Games' web applications.
* `www2` - This is one of Buttercup Games' web applications.
* `www3` - This is one of Buttercup Games' web applications.

vendor_sales - Information about Buttercup Games' retail sales.
## Expectation
* Upload sample log data
* Search through indexed data
* Evaluate search results
* Identify different data sources
* Locate failed SSH login(s) for the root account
