# Improving Access Control for a Small business 

> Please visit this [link](https://www.coursera.org/learn/assets-threats-and-vulnerabilities?specialization=google-cybersecurity) for further information.

## Scenario 

You’re the first cybersecurity professional hired by a growing business. Recently, a deposit was made from the business to an unknown bank account. The finance manager says they didn’t make a mistake. Fortunately, they were able to stop the payment. The owner has asked you to investigate what happened to prevent any future incidents.

To do this, you’ll need to do some accounting on the incident to better understand what happened. First, you will review the access log of the incident. Next, you will take notes that can help you identify a possible threat actor. Then, you will spot issues with the access controls that were exploited by the user. Finally, you will recommend mitigations that can improve the business' access controls and reduce the likelihood that this incident reoccurs.

## Review the event log of this payroll incident

Event logs contain information related to the operation and usage of a system. They can be utilized to identify suspicious activity, detect vulnerabilities, and track users.

Find the **Event log** tab of the Accounting exercise spreadsheet. Carefully review the event log of this incident to start your investigation. Notice the Event *Type, Date, Time, and IP Address* of the user in the log details.

Make **1-2 notes** of information that you learned about the user from reviewing the *Event log* details. Add your notes to the **Notes** column of the access control worksheet.

##  Consider Potential Risks to Assets

Security events are possible when assets are at risk. The source of a risk can range from malicious attackers to accidental human errors. A risk source can even come from natural or environmental hazards, such as a structural failure or power outage.

The bank's funds are one of its key assets. Your team has listed five primary risks to the bank's funds:

* Business email compromise

* Compromised user database

* Financial records leak

* Theft

* Supply chain attack

Consider these potential risks in relation to the bank's operating environment. Then, write **2-3 sentences (40-60 words)** in the **Notes** area of the template describing how security events are possible considering the risks facing the funds in this operating environment.

## Score Risks Based on their Likelihood

As you might recall, risk can be calculated with this simple formula:

**Likelihood x Impact = Risk**

In order to calculate the score for a security risk, you must first estimate and score the likelihood of the risk causing a security event. The likelihood of a risk can be based on available evidence, prior experience, or expert judgment. A common way to estimate the likelihood of the risk is to determine the potential frequency of the risk occurring:

* *Could the risk happen once a day?*

* *Could the risk happen once a month?*

* *Could the risk happen once in a year?*

For example, the bank must have enough funds available each day to meet its legal requirements. A potential risk that could prevent the bank from replenishing its funds is a supply chain disruption. Being located in a coastal area, there's a likelihood that the bank may experience supply chain disruptions caused by hurricanes. However, a hurricane might only impact the bank every few years, so you can score the likelihood as low.

In this instance, the team is scoring the likelihood of an event on a scale of 1-3:

* **1** represents an event with a *low* chance of occuring.

* **2** represents an event with a *moderate* chance of occuring.

* **3** represents a *high* chance of occuring.

Review the **Risk(s)**, **Description**, and **Notes** of the risk register template. Refer to the risk matrix and use it to estimate a likelihood score for each risk. Then, enter a **score (1-3)** for each risk in the **Likelihood** column of the register.

##  Score Risks Based on their Severity

A severity score is an estimate of the overall impact that might occur as a result of an event. For example, damage can occur to a company's reputation or finances and there may be a loss of data, customers, or assets. Evaluating the severity of a risk helps businesses determine the level of risk they can tolerate and how assets might be affected. 

When evaluating the severity of a risk, consider the potential consequences of that risk occurring:

* *How would the business be affected?*

* *What's the financial harm to the business and its customers?*

* *Can important operations or services be impacted?*

* *Are there regulations that can be violated?*

* *What is the reputational damage to the company's standing?*

Use the top row of the risk matrix and consider the potential impact of each risk. Estimate a severity score for each risk. Then, enter a **score (1-3)** for each risk in the **Severity** column of the register:

* **1** *(low severity)*

* **2** *(moderate severity)*

* **3** *(high severity)*

For example, a leak of financial records might lead to a loss of profits, a loss of customers, and heavy regulatory fines. A risk such as this might receive a severity score of 3 because it greatly impacts the bank's ability to operate.

##  Calculate on Overall Risk Score

Ultimately, the goal of performing a risk assessment is to help security teams prioritize their efforts and resources.

Using the risk formula, multiply the likelihood and severity score for each risk. Then, enter a priority **score (1-9)** for each of the risks in the **Priority** column of the register.

