# Incident Final Report

## Scenario 

You recently joined the security team as a level-one security operation center (SOC) analyst at a mid-sized retail company. Along with its physical store locations, your company also conducts operations in e-commerce, which account for 80% of its sales.

You are spending your first week of training becoming familiar with the company's security processes and procedures. Recently, the company experienced a major security incident involving a data breach of over one million users. Because this was a recent and major security incident, your team is working to prevent incidents like this from happening again. This breach happened before you began working at the company. You have been asked to review the final report.

To gain an understanding of the incident's life cycle, your goals for your review are as follows:

* Goal 1: Identify exactly what happened.

* Goal 2: Identify when it happened. 

* Goal 3: Identify the response actions that the company took.

* Goal 4: Identify future recommendations.

## Scenario

The organization experienced a security incident on July 28, 2024, at 7:20 p.m., JST, during which an individual was able to gain unauthorized access to customer personal identifiable information (PII) and financial information. Approximately 50,000 customer records were affected. The financial impact of the incident is estimated to be $100,000 in direct costs and potential loss of revenue. The incident is now closed and a thorough investigation has been conducted. At approximately 3:13 p.m., JST, on Julyy 26, 2024, an employee received an email from an external email address. The email sender claimed that they had successfully stolen customer data. In exchange for not releasing the data to public forums, the sender requested a $25,000 cryptocurrency payment. The employee assumed the email was spam and deleted it. On July 28, 2024, the same employee received another email from the same sender. This email included a sample of the stolen customer data and an increased payment demand of $50,000. On the same day, the employee notified the security team, who began their investigation into the incident. After a thorough review, the security team found there is a vulnerability in the e-commerce web application. This vulnerability allowed the attacker to perform a forced browsing attack and access customer transaction data by modifying the order number included in the URL string of a purchase confirmation page. The organization collaborated with the public relations department to disclose the data breach and offered free identity protection services to those affected customers. The lesson learned from this incident is performing routine vulnerability scans and penetration testing. The one log that the investigation found is the information of thousands of purchase confirmation pages. In addition, the organization may implement a control mechanism to allow a specific set of URLs to block all requests outside of the URL range and ensure that only authenticated users are authorized to gain access.

## Executive Summary 
> A high-level summary of the report including the key findings and essential facts related to the incident.

On July 28, 2022, at 7:20 pm JST, our organization experienced a security incident involving unauthorized access to over 50,000 customer records containing personal identifiable information (PII) and financial data. The breach, resulting from a vulnerability in our e-commerce web application, led to a forced browsing attack. The estimated financial impact is $100,000 in direct costs, with potential revenue loss. Post-incident analysis and recommendations for future prevention are outlined below.

## Timeline 
>  A detailed chronological timeline of the incident that includes timestamps dating the sequence of events that led to the incident.

At 3:13 pm, on July 26, 2024, an employee received an email from an external email address. The email claimed that they had successfully stolen customer data. They requested a $25,000 cryptocurrency payment. The employee assumed it was spam and deleted it.
On July 26, 2024, the same employee received another email from the same sender. This time, the attacker attached a sample of the stolen data and demanded $50,000. On the same day, the employee notified the security team, and the security team is conducting the investigation.

## Investigation 
>  A compilation of the actions taken during the detection and analysis of the incident. For example, analysis of a network artifact such as a packet capture reveals information about what activities happen on a network.

* The root cause of the incident was identified as a vulnerability in the e-commerce web application. This vulnerability allowed the attacker to perform a forced browsing attack and access customer transaction data by modifying the order number included in the URL string of a purchase confirmation page. This vulnerability allowed the attacker to access customer purchase confirmation pages, exposing customer data, which the attacker then collected and exfiltrated.
* After confirming the web application vulnerability, the security team analyzed the web application access logs. The logs indicated that the attacker accessed the information of thousands of purchase confirmation pages.

## Response and Remediation
> Proposed solutions. 

The organization collaborated with the public department to disclose the data breach to its customers and offered free identity protection services to customers affected by the incident. 

## Recommendations 
> A list of suggested actions for future prevention.
* Perform routine vulnerability scans and penetration testing.
* Implement the following access control mechanisms:
  * Implement allowlisting to allow access to a specified set of URLs and automatically block all requests outside of this URL range.
  * Ensure that only authenticated users are authorized access to content.
