# Security Risk Incident Report: Network Hardening

## Part 1: Selectign up to Three Hardening Tools and Methods to Implement

**1. Implementing Multi-factor Authentication (MFA)**
* MFA requires users to use more ways to identify and verify their credentials before accessing an application. Some may include fingerprint and retina scans, facial recognition (Something you are), ID cards and phone numbers or devices (Something you have/possess), PINs and passwords (Something you know).

**2. Enforcing Strong Password Policies**
* It requires the employees to include rules regarding the strength of the passwords, the combination of text, numbers, and symbols and discourage password sharing. Additionally, the organization can set up a prompt that the user will lose access to the network after three unsuccessful attempts.

**3. Performing Firewall Maintenance Regularly and Port Filtering**
* Firewall maintenance checks and updates security configurations to detect threats. Additionally, the firewall can block specific port numbers to limit unwanted communication (Port filtering).

## Part 2: An Explanation of my Recommendations

**1.** With MFA, the organization can reduce the likelihood of malicious actors accessing a network. Under normal circumstances, the malicious actors will use “Brute Force Attack” or other related attacks to conduct the attacks. MFA also promotes secure identity access to the network. 

**2.** Strong password policies will make the company powerful against hackers trying to hack the network. 

**3.** A firewall can detect suspicious incoming and outgoing traffic. The administrator should monitor this regularly. In addition, this measure is to protect against various DoS and DDoS attacks. Also, port filtering can control the network traffic and prevent attackers from entering a private network.
