## Respond: 
### Part 1 : Identify the network protocol involved in the incident

The protocol that got impacted is HTTP or commonly found in port 80. TCPdump detected the problem, captured the protocol and traffic activity in DNS (Port 53) and HTTP traffic log. Since the malicious file is being transported to users, this incident occurred at the application layer.

### Part 2 : Document the incident

Several customers reported that when they visited the website, they were prompted/given one option: Download and run a file to update their browsers. Soon after, they were locked out of their account. 
 
The security team used a sandbox to test the website in an isolated environment. They ran tcpdump to capture the network and protocol traffic packets when interacting with the website. They saw a prompt asking them to update the browser and ran it. Then, the fake website(greatreceipesforme.com) is generated and looks identical to the real one. (yummyrecipesforme.com).
 
Based on the logs, initially, the browser requested the IP address for yummyreceipesforme.com. Once the connection was established over the HTTP protocol, the prompt was to persuade the analyst to download and execute the file. After that, the logs showed a sudden change in network traffic as the new IP resolution for “websites” was generated. 
 
When the senior team received this, he discovered the attack had manipulated the website to inject code that prompted users to download a malicious file disguised as a browser update. Since the administrator account was compromised, everyone’s account was locked out. The team believed that it was a brute force attack. Now, the malicious file has spread to further damage other computers. 
 
 ### Part 3: Recommend one remediation for brute force attacks

2-factor authentication (2FA). One-time password OTP to either their email or phone. Once the user confirms their identity via credential and OTP, they will gain access to the system. Any malicious actor that attempts a brute force attack will not likely gain access to the system because it requires additional authorization. 

